Overhaul AI Gateway docs for new architecture (#2196)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: ai-gateway/concepts/credits.mdx

description: Understanding AI Gateway credits, pricing, and balance management.
---

> AI Gateway credits are a prepaid balance you buy in [app.ngrok.ai](https://app.ngrok.ai). Every request through `https://gateway.ngrok.ai` spends credits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AI Gateway credits are a prepaid balance you purchase through [app.ngrok.ai](https://app.ngrok.ai). Every request through `https://gateway.ngrok.ai` spends credits.
```

Each request pays a small [processing fee](#processing-fee). When you use ngrok.ai inference for built-in OpenAI and Anthropic, credits also cover the model cost. See [How credits are consumed](#how-credits-are-consumed) for the full breakdown.

AI Gateway credits are separate from your ngrok platform billing on [dashboard.ngrok.com](https://dashboard.ngrok.com).

## Accounts and plans

You don't need a specific ngrok subscription plan to use the AI Gateway or purchase credits. Sign in at [app.ngrok.ai](https://app.ngrok.ai), buy credits, and create an [access key](/ai-gateway/concepts/api-keys).

The AI Gateway and your broader ngrok account share the same ngrok account, but they are separate systems:

| | [app.ngrok.ai](https://app.ngrok.ai) | [dashboard.ngrok.com](https://dashboard.ngrok.com) |
|---|---|---|
| **Purpose** | AI Gateway: keys, providers, credits, usage | ngrok platform: subscription, team members, tunnels, endpoints |
| **Credits** | AI Gateway credits (this page) | Not used for AI Gateway traffic |

> If you want ngrok platform features alongside the AI Gateway—team members, or [internal endpoints](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers) to reach self-hosted models—you manage those through [dashboard.ngrok.com](https://dashboard.ngrok.com). That usually means a ngrok plan such as [Pay-as-you-go](https://ngrok.com/pricing). Using the gateway with credits alone does not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want ngrok platform features alongside the AI Gateway (such as team members, or [internal endpoints](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers) to reach self-hosted models) you can manage those through [dashboard.ngrok.com](https://dashboard.ngrok.com). This generally requires a paid ngrok plan such as [Pay-as-you-go](https://ngrok.com/pricing); using the gateway with credits alone does not.
```

## Purchasing credits

> Open the [Credits page](https://app.ngrok.ai/credits) and purchase at least USD $5.00.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the [Credits page](https://app.ngrok.ai/credits) and purchase at least USD $5.00.
```

You can also start checkout via the AI Gateway API:

```bash
curl -X POST https://api.ngrok.ai/credits/checkout-session \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $AI_GATEWAY_API_KEY" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ "amount": 500 }'
```

Credits expire **one year** after purchase.

## How credits are consumed

| Routing | Credits pay for | You pay separately |
|---------|-----------------|------------------|
| Built-in OpenAI or Anthropic (ngrok.ai inference) | Processing fee and upstream model cost | Nothing |
| Built-in provider with your provider key | Processing fee | Upstream model cost to your provider |

## Balance tracking

You can view your balance on the [Credits page](https://app.ngrok.ai/credits), or via the API:

```bash
curl https://api.ngrok.ai/credits/balance \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer $AI_GATEWAY_API_KEY"
```

## What happens when credits run out

When your credit balance reaches zero, the gateway rejects new requests until you purchase more credits.

## Processing fee

> Every successful request through the gateway incurs a processing fee at **$0.05 per million tokens** (USD). The fee is based on the tokens in your request and response. It applies to all traffic—ngrok.ai inference, your own [provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys), and [custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers)—and does not vary by model or provider.

Reviewer: to be consistent with price formatting - might be worth creating a vale rule for this

```suggestion
Every successful request through the gateway incurs a processing fee at **USD $0.05 per million tokens**. The fee is based on the tokens in your request and response. It applies to all traffic—ngrok.ai inference, your own [provider keys](/ai-gateway/guides/attaching-provider-keys), and [custom providers](/ai-gateway/concepts/custom-providers)—and does not vary by model or provider.
```
